
Not a joke.  It’s not a joke.  You’re the best in the world.  That’s not a joke.  You’re the best in the world.  You know, you had my back in 2020.  And because of you, I’m standing here as President of the United States of America — because of you.  (Applause.)  And that’s a fact. 

Because you, in 2024, we’re going to make Donald Trump a loser again.  (Applause.)  Are you ready?  Are you ready?  (Applause.)

I’m so damn proud to be with you.  And I really mean it: I’m proud to be with you.  All my — my relatives, my grandpop and everybody else up in — were — they’re all gone now, but in Scranton, they — my — I had an uncle who used to say, “Joey, you’re belt buckle to shoe shole [sole] union.”

Well, let me tell you something.  I’m proud to be the most union pres- — pro-union president in American history.  And it’s because of you.  You’re proof what have — I’ve always known.  Not a joke. 

I’ve always known that Wall Street didn’t build America.  The middle class built America, and unions built the middle class.  (Applause.)  That’s a fact.  That’s a fact.

Folks, being with you today reminds me of where I grew up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Claymont, Delaware.  I was up in Scranton last week. 

It’s great to have the mayor of Scranton, by the way, Paige Cognetti.  Where are you, Paige?  She’s here today.  I don’t — it’s a big crowd out there, but you’ll — if you see her, you’ll know her.  (Laughter.)

Look, in Scranton, I learned a basic value set that all of you learned as well, no matter where you’re from.  I learned that money doesn’t determine your worth.  I learned that all anyone wants is just a fair shot — a fair shot of making it.  Don’t block the road for me.  Give me an even shot. 

My dad, I swear to God, used to have an expression.  He’d come home from — after he closed — he’d come for dinner and then go back and close his — the shop.  My dad would say, “Joey a job” — and I mean it sincerely — “a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about being able to look your child in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay’ and mean it.”

That’s what we’re all about: dignity of all workers — the dignity of workers.  (Applause.)  I mean it.

And we all grew up — (applause) — we all grew up with folks who sort of looked down on us because of what our dads did.  They weren’t in business.  They weren’t executives.  They weren’t something special.  But they are special. 

You know, but people like Donald Trump learned a different lesson.  He learned the best way to get rich is inherit it.  (Laughter.)  He learned that paying taxes is something working people did, not him.  He learned that telling people “you’re fired” was something to laugh about.

Not in my household.  Not in my neighborhood.  (Applause.)  I mean it sincerely.  No joke.  Especially being fired because you had no protection. 

Folks, I guess that’s how you look at the world from Mar-a-Lago, where Trump and his rich friends embrace the same failed trickle-down policies that have failed working-class families and union families for over 40 years.

But if you grew up where we grew up, nobody handed you anything.  Being told you were fired wasn’t entertainment.  It was devastating.  It was a nightmare.

And, folks, we all know people like Trump who look down on us, don’t we?  We all know somebody we grew up with like that.

Well, folks, where I come from, it matters.  When I look at the economy, I don’t see it through the eyes of Mar-a-Lago, I see it through the eyes of — through the eyes of Scranton and working people like all of you and my family.

You know, we know the best way to grow an economy is from the bottom up and the middle out, not the top down.  My dad used to say not a whole hell of a lot trickled down on his kitchen table in that top-down policy.

When we do that, when we work from the bottom up and the middle out, the poor have a ladder up and the middle class does well.

And, by the way, the wealthy still do very well if they just start paying their damn taxes.  (Applause.)

So, it’s either Scranton values or Mar-a-Lago values.  These are competing visions of the economy at the heart of this election — competing visions of what we look at and see as Amer- — as America.

Folks, one of the reasons I ran for President was to rebuild the backbone of the middle class, and we have.  We’re following my blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America.  And guess what?  It’s working. 

You’re building that America.  You’re — in this room — are building that America.

For example, thanks to my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, more than 51,000 new manufacturing projects have been announced so far, and we’re just beginning.  It’s just beginning.  (Applause.)  It’s just — just starting.  (Applause.)

Roads, bridges, ports, airports, clean water systems, available high-speed Internet all across America and built by the Building Trades.  (Applause.)

Remember when President Pr- — Trump promised us — (laughs) — I’ve got to be careful.  (Laughter.)

He promised us “Infrastructure Week.”  Well, I tell you what, it took four years; he never built a damn thing.  Nothing.  I’m serious.  (Applause.)  Are you surprised?

I’m sure — I’m making sure the projects, like project labor agreements, so highly skilled workers have a voice on the job. 

But even before Trump was president, Trump preferred non-union workers in his real estate projects.  And I don’t want to get into the stories.  But anyway.  Even he — even in that he didn’t keep his word.  He just asked contractors, vendors, and small businesses.  And — and if you read the press, if any of it’s true, he never paid them — a whole hell a lot of them.  The guy has never worked a day in a working man’s boots. 

By the way, he gave me a pair of boots as a gift, by the way.  (Laughter.)  I know how to put them on.  I still sometimes cut the yard.  The Secret Service doesn’t let me do it anymore.  (Laughter.)

Folks, I’m making Davis-Bacon requirements stronger to guarantee prevailing wage.  (Applause.) 

By the way, we’re making them stronger.  (Applause.)  That will — (applause) — that alone will increase wages for more than a million construction workers. 

Trump’s MAGA allies are trying to take it away now.  But it’s not going to happen on my watch.  (Applause.)

Since — since the 1930s, the law has said when the federal government spends taxpayers’ dollars on a project, it can only buy American products to do it and use American workers to get it done.  That’s “Buy America.”  Donald Trump failed to uphold that.  But not anymore.  My administration uses American products and American workers.  That’s why it’s going.  (Applause.)  I mean it.

Because, folks — (applause) — it’s — it’s not a joke.  It’s not a campaign line.  The God’s truth is you’re the best workers in the world.  That’s a fact.  You’re the best workers in the world. 

When I went out to South Korea to get them to beg- — start to build back those computer chips here in America, I said, “Why are you wil-” — and they decided to do it, invest- — investing billions of dollars.  I said, “Why are you doing it?”  He said, “Two things: You have the best workers in the world, and you have the safest place in the world to do it.”

Well, folks, when I think climate, I think jobs.  I think union jobs — good-paying jobs that don’t require a college degree. 

You’ve attracted nearly $700 billion in private-sector investment in advanced manufacturing, in semiconductors, clean energy, and so much more here in America, creating tens of thousands of good-paying jobs, Building Trades jobs.  In fact, construction of new factories has more than doubled in our administration.

Meanwhile — (applause) — meanwhile, Donald Trump still thinks windmills cause cancer.  (Laughter.)  That’s what he said. 

And, by the way, remember when he was trying to deal with COVID?  He said just inject a little bleach in your veins.  (Laughter.)  He missed; it all went to his hair.  (Laughter.)

Look, I shouldn’t have said that.  (Applause.)  I probably shouldn’t have said that.  (Laughter.)  You guys are a bad influence on me.  (Laughter.)

Trump and his MAGA allies want to repeal the most significant investments in climate ever — the work that — that you risked your lives doing lots of it.  You know, it — and he wants to risk all those jobs.  Are you surprised?  I’m not.

A lot of you don’t know that if you want to be a pipe fitter — a lot of people don’t know — if you want to be a pipe fitter or an electrician or any of the other trades here, it takes four or five years of hard work as an apprentice.

Most people think you can walk up (inaudible) — you guys should talk more about this.  They think you can walk up and you just say, “I want to be an electrician,” and you get a license.  It’s four or five years.  It’s like going back to college.  It’s going — like getting a college degree.

And that’s the reason — the reason you’re the best is because you’re the best trained in the world.  You get it; I get it.  But Donald Trump has no clue.

He undermined union apprenticeships by lowering standards and lowering pay.  He ended — I ended his anti-work policy to save the building trades apprenticeships program because they’re the gold standard of the world.  (Applause.)  They are.  They actually are.

And, look — and earlier this week — earlier this week, I teamed up together to recruit young people into the building trades.  It’s — my American Climate Corps will now pa- — pave a pathway to your apprenticeship program, because it matters.  It matters.

Through my American Rescue Plan, there’s — not a single Republican voted for, I might add — I also enacted the Butch Lewis Act — (applause) — the most pro-labor law in 50 years, because of you — because of you.  That one act — that one act has already protected hard-earned pensions of over 1 million workers and retirees and counting. 

We made that happen.  While Trump promised it, he never even lifted a finger to try to get it.  Are you surprised? 

I — hell no, I’m not, either.  (Laughter.) 

Trump put union busters on the Nabor La- — the National Labor Relations Board throughout his administration.  I’ve appointed people in my administration that actually care about American workers, like former bui- — the building trades leader, Marty Walsh, who was a great Labor Secretary — (applause) — during my administration.  

By the way, if you ever need — if you’re ever in a foxhole, I tell you, you want Marty Walsh — (pronounced in an accent) — with you, man.  (Laughter.)  Oh, you think I’m kidding.  He’s the real deal.

You know, I’ve walked proudly on union picket lines, while at the same time, Trump bashed unions from non-union shops.  (Applause.)  Are you surprised?

Look, I want to sign the PRO Act into law.  (Applause.) 

Trump said he’d veto it.  Trump said he’d veto it.  Beyond that, he supports a National Right to Work law, for God’s sake.

No, I — think about it.  What is the single biggest killer that could happen?  A National Right to Work law. 

Look, he might as well say he doesn’t support any unions.

Are we going to let him — that happen, pal?  We’re not going to let that happen.

Let me ask you: Does anyone here think the tax system is fair?  Raise your hand. 

Well, Trump is proud of his $2 trillion tax cut in his administration that overwhelmingly benefited the very wealthy and the biggest corporations while exploding the federal debt.  Trump added more to the national debt than any president in a single term in all of American history — to the national debt. 

I cut the national debt so far — (applause) — and still got all those other things did by doing simple things like, you know — remember those 40 Fortune 500 company — or those — those Fortune 500 companies, 40 of them — I think, no, it was 50 — who didn’t pay a single penny in taxes and made 40 billion dol- — 4 billion — $40 billion? 

Well, guess what?  I did a terrible thing.  I made them pay 15 percent.  (Laughter and applause.)  And we cut the deficit by $70 billion. 

Look, now Trump is saying if he gets elected, he wants to give another — by the way, that tax credit of his expires next year.  Okay?  (Applause.) 

Well, let me tell you something: It’s going to stay expired and dead forever if I’m reelected.  But anyway.  (Applause.)

He wants another — he wants to give another massive tax cut for the wealthy.  And he also says he wants to cut your Medicare and Social Security, and you’re going to let him — that happen? 






 I think that voters are going to sunset Rick Scott.  (Applause.)
 
It’s important, man. 
 
And thanks to all of you here today.  It’s good to be at a community college.  As a matter of fact, my wife has been campaigning all over the country with me between classes.  My wife still is a full-time professor at — (applause) — at Northern Virginia Community College. 
 
(An audience member drops his cell phone.)
 
You lost your phone.  Get that man his phone.  He’s going to be in trouble.  Or that woman her phone.  (Laughter.)
 
She’s teaching this very day, Jill is.  Community college, as she often says, is one of the best-kept secrets in America.  (Applause.)  No, I really mean it.
 
You know, if I have my way in the next four years, I’m going to make community college free.  (Applause.) 
 
And it’ll grow the economy.  It won’t cost the taxpayers.
 
Look, next week, one of the nation’s most extreme anti-abortion laws will take affect here in Florida.  It’s criminalizing reproductive healthcare for — before women even know whether they’re pregnant. 
 
I mean, this is bizarre.  I can put — you can put a doctor in prison if he takes care of a patient, as you just heard some version of from Louisiana. 
 
You know, this extreme Florida law is going to impact 4 million — 4 million women in the state of Florida.  Florida is one of the Twenty-one states in America — where America — you can’t get access you need for care.  This adds up to one in three women throughout the United States of America have this limitation.
 
For 50 years, the court ruled that there was a fundamental constitutional right to privacy, but two years ago that was taken away.  
 
Let’s be real clear.  There’s one person responsible for this nightmare, and he’s acknowledged and he brags about it: Donald Trump.

In fact, Trump has bragged about overturning Roe v. Wade, which meant there’s no federal right, no decision can be made — all those decisions are made at a state level.  A lot of people don’t even know that.  They don’t focus on it.  It’s a — every state can make a decision. 
 
Well, you know, now Trump says the law is, quote, “working the way it’s supposed to.”
 
Trump goes on to say individual state laws are working — his words — “brilliantly.”  “Brilliantly.” 
 
It’s a six-week ban in Florida.  It’s really brilliant, isn’t it?  Even before women know they’re pregnant.  Is that brilliant?

Look, just take a look at Arizona.  That goes all the way back to 1864, before Arizona was even a state and before women had the right to vote — concluding that that’s the law of the land in Arizona.  And today, MAGA Republicans refuse to re- — repeal that ban in — in Arizona. 
 
Trump is literally taking us back 160 years.  He says it’s up to the states and this is all about states’ rights.  But he’s wrong.  The Supreme Court was wrong. 
 
This should be a constitutional right in the federal Constitution, a federal right.  (Applause.) 
 
And it shouldn’t matter where in America you live.  It’s about — this isn’t about states’ rights.  It’s about women’s rights.  (Applause.)  No, I really — I mean this.  I —
 
Look — folks, look, now he’s worried the voters will hold him accountable for saying he’s responsible for getting Roe v.  Wade overturned.  (Laughs.)  Donald Trump is worried voters are going to hold him accountable for the cruelty and chaos he created. 

Folks, the bad news for Trump is that we are going to hold him accountable.  (Applause.)  We — we are.  He should be held accountable.
 
He should be accountable for states enacting extreme laws that put IVF treatments at risk for women desperately trying to have families. 
 
Voters are going to hold Trump accountable for women being turned away from emergency rooms, like my introducer was; forced to travel hundreds of miles to get basic healthcare; forced to go to court to plead for help to protect herself and her ability to have children in the future. 
 
Folks, voters are going to hold Trump accountable. 
 
When — (applause) — when women are told by extreme politicians and judges to wait, get sicker and sicker to the point where your life is determined to be in danger. 
 
Pregnant women in America are risk — at risk, particularly Black women in America

No, that’s the statistic.  Data shows they’re already too likely to die from complications at birth. 
 
I believe voters are going to hold Trump accountable when family members and doctors are threatened with prosecution for trying to help them.  Not only that, I believe voters are going to hold Trump accountable and his MAGA extremist friends to prevent all women in America from getting safe and effective medication, like mifepristone.  Approved by the FDA 20 years ago, they’re trying to outlaw that now.  (Applause.)
 
For 50 years, the court had recognized that women in America had a fundamental, constitutional right, and then Trump took it away by the — with the deal he made. 
 
Now, in America today, in 2024, women have fewer rights than their mothers and their grandmothers had because of Donald Trump.
 
Look, I don’t think we’re going to let them get away with it.  Do you?
His words, not mine. 
 
He described the Dobbs decision as a “miracle.”  Maybe it’s coming from that Bible he’s trying to sell.  (Laughter.)  Whoa.  I almost wanted to buy one just to see what the hell is in it.  (Laughter.) 
 
Folks, it was no miracle.  It was a political deal to get rid of Roe v. — a deal.  A political deal he made with the Evangelical base of the Republican Party to look past his moral char- — if they looked past his moral and character flaws in exchange for his commitment to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who would overturn Roe.  Don’t think he’s making the deal right now with MAGA extremists to ban nationwide abortion in every single state, because he’s making it.
 
In fact, the MAGA majority in the House of Representatives has introduced three separate bans — three separate bans to choi- — to ban choice nationwide — in every single state, based on the state — each state.
 
These bills — they’re overwhelming — have overwhelming support of Republicans in Congress.  But know this: As long as I have the power of the presidency, it’s never going to happen.  (Applause.)
 
I mean it.  Congress ever — if Congress ever passes a ban, I will veto that ban.  (Applause.)
 
Elect a Democratic Congress.  Kamala and I will make Roe v. Wade the law of the land again.  (Applause.)
 
Let’s be clear.  The overturning of Roe v. Wade also puts at risk broader rights of privacy for everyone.  If you think I’m exaggerating, here’s what Justice Thomas wrote in his curr- — concurring opinion in Roe v. Wade.  He wrote that the future cases of the Court should reconsider — reconsider all substantive due process precedents, from Griswold — Griswold legalized the use of contraception — O- — and Obergefell — legalized same-sex marriage. 
 
Justice Thomas means it, and so does Donald Trump.
 
Again, here’s what that means: the right to make the best decisions for your health, the right to use birth control, the right to marry the person you love.  All that is at risk now because there it is no longer viewed by some of our good friends in the Court as a constitutional guaranteed right.
 
Are we going to let that happened?


THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.) 

Thank you, Za’Nyia, for sharing your story that embodies the spirit of Earth Day. 

On this day 54 years ago, with literally toxic rivers burning, air filled with pollution, millions of Americans from every age and background rallied together to stand for our environment and for future generations. 

I got to know Senator Gordan Nelson — Gaylord Nelson, excuse me — from Wisconsin when I got to the Senate.  And he organized the first Earth Day.  I later introduced the first climate bill in the United States Senate.  And all these years later, as president, I was able to sign into law the Inflation Reduction Act, the most si- — (applause) — the most significant [climate] investment every anywhere in the history of the world, and we’re just getting started.

Earth Day pushed the country forward, leading to Environmental Protection Agency, and we’re fortunate enough to have with us the EPA Administrator Michael Regan.  Where are you, Michael?  (Applause.)  Stand up.  Get up.  Get up.

I stole him from Carolina.  We’re not letting him go back.  (Laughter.)

And we’re joined by our great Secretary of Interior, Deb Haaland.  (Applause.)  Deb, stand up.  The first Native American ever to serve in a Cabinet.  (Applause.)

And AmeriCorps CEO Michael Smith — Michael, where are you?  There y- — (applause) — joined by members of the Congress, including Ed Markey of Massachusetts, who, by the way, thought this was an important idea a long time ago and talked about dealing with the Climate Corps — one — needed one.  Ed, we owe you a lot, pal.  We owe you a lot.  (Applause.)

And Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who understands what beautiful territory looks like up in Vermont and has done everything in his power to protect it.  Bernie, you’re the best.  (Applause.)

And Representative Ocasio-Cortez of New York — you know, I learned a long time ago: Listen to that lady.  (Laughter.)  Listen to that lady.  We’re going to talk more about another part of the world too, real quickly.

Look, joined by all of you advocates and community leaders, that’s — this is a good day.

It’s fitting to be here in Pric- — Prince William Forest Park.  On March 31, 1933, during the Great Depression, President Franklin Delano Roose- — Roosevelt created the the Climate [Civilian] Conservation Corps, which is talked about a little bit, to put Americans to work to conserve our country’s natural resources. Thousands — thousands of young Americans from the Civilian Conservation Corps built this park, providing jobs, recreation, hope, and healing at the time.  

We know today we face another kind of existential threat that requires equally bold and clear action.  As President, I’ve seen the devastating toll of climate firsthand.  Since I’ve been president, I’ve flown over all the major fires and the thousands upon thousands of acres that have burned flat by wil- — wildfires — more acres than the entire state of Maryland combined.  I’ve met with families whose homes were wiped off the map by devastating hurricanes, floods, and storms. 

Last year was Earth Day’s [the Earth’s] hottest day [year] on record.  And over the last two years, natural disasters and extreme weather in America have caused $270 billion — $270 billion in damages.  And the impacts we’re seeing — decades in the making because of inaction — are only going to get worse, more frequent, ferocious, and costly.

But since Kamala and I took office, we’ve been acting.  And today, I’m proud to announce two major steps forward. 

The first: Energy costs are among the biggest costs for families to budget, particular poor and middle-income families.  In fact, low-income families can spend up to 30 percent of their paychecks on their energy bills.  It’s outrageous. 

To reduce family energy costs for folks with low and moderate incomes today, the Environmental Protection Agency will invest $7 billion from my Inflation Reduction Act in a new program called “Solar for All.”  (Applause.) 

It will award grants — 60 grants across the country to states, territories, Tribal governments, municipalities, and nonprofits to develop programs that enable low-income and disadvantaged communities to benefit from residential solar power.  And it’s a big deal. 

This new Solar for All program means that 900,000 households — 900,000 will have solar on their rooftops for the first time and soon.  Millions of families will save over $400 a year on utility bills.  And that’s $350 million nationwide.  My dad said it matters what’s there at the end of the — end of the paycheck.  But a month is out, do you have anything left?

It means we’ll cut more than 5 million metric tons of carbon pollution annually. 

And, folks, Solar for All will give us more breathing room and cleaner breathing room.  It’s going to also create 200,000 good-paying and union jobs over the five — (applause) — over the five years in communities that need them most: fenceline communities. 

You know, as I always say, I think about climate — when I think about it, I think not only about health and safety, but I think about jobs.  And that brings me to my second announcement.  

Last fall, I talked about a historic new program that my administration is launching, with the help of my colleagues on my right here, called the Cl- — the American Climate Corps.  As I said — and I’m not being solicitous — Ed — Ed Markey talked about that long before — long before.

It’s patterned after the Civilian Conservation Corps and the Peace Corps and America Corps [AmeriCorps]. Like them, it brings out the best in young people to do what’s best for America and will put tens of thousands of young people to work at the forefront of our climate resilience and energy future — clean energy future. 

Today, I’m proud to announce that Americans across the country can now apply — now apply to become the first members of the American Climate Corps.  We’re recru- — (applause) — we’re recruiting for over 2,000 positions in 36 states to start with — in Washington D.C., Puerto Rico, with many on the way.  Just go to ClimateCorps — as mentioned already, ClimateCorps.gov to apply.  You’ll get paid to fight climate change, learning how to install those solar panels, fight wildfires, rebuild wetlands, weatherize homes, and so much more that’s going to protect the environment and build a clean energy economy. 

To ensure a pathway to good union jobs and careers, you’ll have access to pre-apprenticeship training through a new partnership we’re announcing today with the North American Building Trade Unions [Trades Union]. And when y- — (applause) —

As you may remember, when I announced in 2020, I initially didn’t announce my climate position until I talked to the unions, because unions were all ag- — they thought climate cost them jobs.  Well, guess what?  IBEW stepped up, and they all stepped up, and now our strongest support comes from union members.  (Applause.)

When you finish your service — when you finish your term of service, you’ll also be eligible for a streamlined path to federal government jobs related to climate and clean energy.  

We’re also announcing a new collaboration with Bloomberg Philanthropies that puts American Climate Corps members in energy communities — like former coalmining communities, power plant communities — that have powered our nation but have been fenceline communities that have hurt very badly for generations. 

Today — today’s announcement builds upon an unprecedented and historic action we’ve already taken to tackle the climate crisis, deliver environmental justice, and build a clean energy future.  Just look at the last few weeks alone. 

To ensure clean energy [air], we issued new standards for chemical plants that emit toxic pollution.  Now, (inaudible).

And because of the Clean Air Act, we’re going to reduce the number of people at risk for cancer in fenceline communities who have been smothered for decades by pollution by 96 percent, according to the studies.  

And by the way, parenthetically, you know, my state of Delaware, which everybody thinks is a wealthy state — I lived in a place called Claymont, Delaware.  It’s in that arc that goes up into Philadelphia — into Pennsylvania and to the Delaware River.  More — more energy plants, more oil refin- — refineries than anywhere, including Houston, Texas.  And I lived in just — literally, the school I went to was literally a quarter mile from that border.

And the prevailing winds were southeast, where we lived.  So, there was never any incentive for the Pennsylvanians to move to do something, but it affected Delaware.  And we had the highest cancer rate in the 1970s of any nation — any state in the nation.  And guess what?  A lot of us from — me included, ended up with bronchial asthma and many other diseases. 

Fenceline communities are the ones we have to help first, because they’ve been taking the brunt of all this.

To ensure clean drinking water, we issued the first-ever national drinking water standard that’ll protect people from exposure to harmful substances known as “forever chemicals.” 

And after 30 years of inadequate protections, we finally are going to put a ban on asbestos, which we know causes cancer.  (Applause.)  

It’s all part of a plan to reassert America’s climate leadership.

We rejoined the Paris Agreement and sparked a domestic clean energy manufacturing boom, providing incentives for 80,000 farmers to implement climate-smart agricultural practice.  So, plant what absorbs carbon from the air and get them — pay them for doing it.   

We’ve quadrupled the number of electric vehicles sold, and 11,000 dealerships have now signed up to sell more.

We’re modernizing our infrastructure with better roads and highways and energy grids and more so they can withstand and recover from extreme weather. 

Already underway, we’re replacing every single lead pipe in America so everyone can turn on a faucet, home or at school, and drink clean water that doesn’t contain lead.  (Applause.)

We’re also reduting [reducing] flood risk for communities, improving drought re- — resilience, and conserving 41 million acres of our most precious and sacred lands and water.

I committed that I’m going to try to reserve — take — of all non-developed land and waters, we’re going to take 30 percent of it by 2030 and make sure it is conserved, period.  We’re well on our way.  (Applause.)
We’ve already attracted nearly $700 billion in private sector investments in advanced manufacturing and clean energy, creating tens of thousands of jobs here in America. 

And all across the board, we’re lifting up communities and workers too often left out in urban, rural, suburban, Tribal communities all across the country.

But, folks, despite the overwhelming devastation in red and blue states, there are still those who deny climate is in crisis.  Our MAGA Republican friends don’t seem to think it’s in crisis.  They don’t — they don’t want our — they actually want to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, which provides the funding for a vast majority of these projects, and roll back clean air — protections for clean air and clean water. 

And y- — I’m not going to go into it now, but you — I’m not making it up.  It’s real.  Just listen to what they say.

Anyone in or out of government who willfully denies the impacts of climate change is condemning the American people to a very dangerous future — and the world, I might add.  They want to take us backwards, sideline our workers, let China and others lead the race for clean energy. 

I’m determined — absolutely determined — that we move forward — we move forward.  (Applause.)

Let me close with this.  In 1933 — and it was referenced by the congresslady — that when Roosevelt outlined the Civilian Conservation Corps, he said, quote — and I’m quoting — “More important than the material gains will be the moral and spiritual value of such work.”  He always put it in the context that went beyond just what the immediate need was. 

I’d say the same holds true for what we’re doing here today.  It has a moral imperative. 

And I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future.  We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of America.  And there is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together.  (Applause.) 

And so, happy Earth Day, folks.  (Applause.)  And God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

We’re going to get this done, I promise you, come hell or high water. 

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Come on up.

All right, guys.  Let’s get this done.  Okay?  (Applause.)  All right.

God bless you all. 